So for this notebook,
what we want to do is to be
able to size each of our petals
based on the movie's rating.
So we might have noticed so
far that we've only been mapping
our categorical attributes.
So our genres and parental guidance for
our flower petals.
But there's also some quantitative data
attributes that we want to map to our
flower petals also.
So let's try maybe scaling our petals
by the IMDB ratings out of 10.
And this is what our code looks like.
So a lot of it is very similar to
what the exercise we just did.
But the only difference is that in
this transform, we have this scale.
So we're changing a scale after
the translate, and we're passing in and
we're just scaling by
the IMDB rating out of 10.
You might notice that looks like it's
not what we're hoping for, right?
[LAUGH] I did this and I was like,
actually this kind of looks really cool.
It's kind of like a weird
funky artistic vibe, but
that's not what we're going for
with this visualization.
And we certainly don't want each
of our petals to be this big.
And what's actually happening is that
because the petals that we created
are 100 pixels tall.
If we're scaling, or
in other words multiplying each of
our flower petals by some number.
Some rating from zero to 10 That means
that some of our biggest petals will
be like 1000 pixels tall.
And that's definitely not what we want,
at least for this workshop.
So, let's go about fixing
this with D3 scales.
And so here's kind of like a key
concept number two, which is that
we use D3 scales to translate our
raw data into the visual channels.
That we use to render to the DOM.
So let's take a look at
some common data types.
So, the ones that I've come across quite
often is quantitative data attributes.
So that could be the ones we talked
about with the IMDB rating out of 10.
It could be the number of IMDB votes,
and a second one is temporal.
So that could be a movie's release date or
DVD date.
It could be spatial so
that could be the city or
the country that the movie
was released in.
And this is potentially like
we can do a map with, and
maps are something that we
won't cover in this workshop.
But D3 has a lot of extended support and
functionality for it.
And on the other side we
have categorical data types.
So that could be nominal,
like genres and these movie genres.
Or ordinal,
which means that it's categorical but
with a certain implied order.
So, the most common example is t
shirt sizes of small, medium large.
In our example we have
parental guidance ratings.
Because there's an implied order
going from G to PG to PG13 to R.
And so another way that you can think
of these two buckets of data types,
is that one of these data types
the quantitative, the temporal.
Actually, spatial actually, I think I
might have categorised that incorrectly.
Spatial should go under
the categorical one I think.
But the quantitative and temporal one,
you can think of it as continuous.
They're on kind of like a continuous
scale of if it's quantitative and
it's a rating out of 10.
Then you can have a rating
that's like 3.5 or
7.23, so that's continuous.
And then for these nominal or
ordinal data types,
like genres and parental guidance,
these are discrete, distinct attributes.